CV.md, before:

# Leo Allen
## Technical Consultant, Web Developer

> [Download PDF](cv.pdf)
> [leo.f.allen@gmail.com](leo.f.allen@gmail.com)
> +44 (0)7841 528 905

------

### Profile {#profile}

From helping start-ups get off the ground to working in large teams for established websites with millions of users, I have over 10 years experience creating, developing, designing and advising for companies in four continents in all aspects required to make a successful online business.

------

### Skills {#skills}

* Web Development
  : Specialising in Ruby, PHP, and Javascript I'm passionate about not just coding, but finding the elusive balance between doing something the right way using everyone's favourite acronyms (TDD, OOP, MVC, etc.) and getting it delivered on time and on budget.

* Project Direction
  : Experience in managing, directing and training teams, ensuring that team members are happy, engaged and productive, and implementing best practices such as Agile - or even better Extreme Programming (XP) - to get the job done effectively with as little time wasted on pointless managerial procedures.

* Product Development
  : I believe the key to web development is communication, and most importantly this is ensuring that the business goals and the technical needs are working together nicely. That's why I've found my most successful projects have been those in which I've been allowed to give technical insights into the direction of the business/product.

-------

### Technical {#technical}
1. Ruby/Rails
1. Javascript/CoffeeScript
1. PHP
1. HTML5
1. CSS3
1. Git
1. Unix
1. MySQL/PostgreSQL
1. Some experience of NodeJS/Python

------

### Selected Experience {#experience}

Various
: *Freelance Web Developer*
  __2014__
  Worked most recently on a wide variety of projects: everything from a Chaplin.js/Backbone.js/Rails based booking management system, to a custom-designed interactive map using Leaf.js/Mapbox and Drupal, to a music visualizer for the London Symphony Orchestra built in tandem with an animator using Blender and Python.

Enternships
: *Lead Developer*
  __2013-2014__
  Acted as interim Lead Developer for a socially-minded jobs board for young people. Assisted in the rebuilding from scratch of the website in Rails, introducing a strict BDD-based approach to code development, whilst overseeing a more agile system of team management.

ECPAT International
: *Web Designer/Technical Consultant*
  __2013__
  Advised Bangkok-based international charity with subsidiaries in over 70 countries on the direction they should take technically. Following this consultancy volunteered to rebuild and redesign their current site, and based on a thorough research of their user's and the charities needs built a Drupal site with a cleaned-up, stripped-down design.

Maker's Academy
: *Teacher*
  __2013__
  Founding member of the faculty of a 12-week intensive web development course, both taught students in the class and assisted with the development of the curriculum. Students have since gone on to work at companies such as Sky and LastMinute.com

CouchSurfing.org
: *Software Engineer*
  __2011-2012__
  Worked on one of the largest and well-established travel websites (with over 6 million registered users), both on over-hauling the current site, creating a new events system, as well as being entrusted with architecting and building the API for their mobile apps.

Mukuru.com
: *Lead Developer*
  __2008-2010__
  Architected and built an entire mobile money-transfer system -  the same system is still being used four years on and and has transferred over $1 billion using an innovative SMS-based approach. Included in the system was a custom-built accounting application, anti-fraud protection, CRM and more.

Various Companies
: *Freelance Web Developer*
  __2004-2014__
  For the past 10 years I have worked freelance on-and-off for various companies, doing everything from building a co-working website in Ruby for a New-York based start-up to a bill-sharing application written in PHP.

------

### Education {#experience}

First Class Honours in *Intellectual and Cultural History*, __University of Sussex__

------

### Footer {#footer}

[leo.f.allen@gmail.com](leo.f.allen@gmail.com) -- +44 (0) 7841 528 905 -- [http://github.com/pitchinvasion](http://github.com/pitchinvasion)

Commit message:

Add Makers Academy to CV

CV.md, after:

# Leo Allen
## Technical Consultant, Web Developer

> [Download PDF](cv.pdf)
> [leo.f.allen@gmail.com](leo.f.allen@gmail.com)
> +44 (0)7841 528 905

------

### Profile {#profile}

From helping start-ups get off the ground to working in large teams for established websites with millions of users, I have over 10 years experience creating, developing, designing and advising for companies in four continents in all aspects required to make a successful online business.

------

### Skills {#skills}

* Web Development
  : Specialising in Ruby, PHP, and Javascript I'm passionate about not just coding, but finding the elusive balance between doing something the right way using everyone's favourite acronyms (TDD, OOP, MVC, etc.) and getting it delivered on time and on budget.

* Project Direction
  : Experience in managing, directing and training teams, ensuring that team members are happy, engaged and productive, and implementing best practices such as Agile - or even better Extreme Programming (XP) - to get the job done effectively with as little time wasted on pointless managerial procedures.

* Product Development
  : I believe the key to web development is communication, and most importantly this is ensuring that the business goals and the technical needs are working together nicely. That's why I've found my most successful projects have been those in which I've been allowed to give technical insights into the direction of the business/product.

-------

### Technical {#technical}
1. Ruby/Rails
1. Javascript/CoffeeScript
1. PHP
1. HTML5
1. CSS3
1. Git
1. Unix
1. MySQL/PostgreSQL
1. Some experience of NodeJS/Python

------

### Selected Experience {#experience}

Makers Academy
: *Senior Engineer/Coach*
  __2014-2016__
  Returned to Makers Academy (Europe's largest coding bootcamp) to lead up the
Engineering team, introducing best practices such as Continuous
Integration/Deployment, XP-themed Agile, TDD, pair programming, etc. Helped
update the curriculum with Node.js and Angular.js, and coached hundreds of students
into their first job. Worked on product design, introducing
Design Sprints and doing proper UX with user interviews and metrics. Helped the
team experiment with self-management, and introduced ideas of self-management
into the engineering team.

Various
: *Freelance Web Developer*
  __2014__
  Worked on a wide variety of projects: everything from a Chaplin.js/Backbone.js/Rails based booking management system, to a custom-designed interactive map using Leaf.js/Mapbox and Drupal, to a music visualizer for the London Symphony Orchestra built in tandem with an animator using Blender and Python.

Enternships
: *Lead Developer*
  __2013-2014__
  Acted as interim Lead Developer for a socially-minded jobs board for young people. Assisted in the rebuilding from scratch of the website in Rails, introducing a strict BDD-based approach to code development, whilst overseeing a more agile system of team management.

ECPAT International
: *Web Designer/Technical Consultant*
  __2013__
  Advised Bangkok-based international charity with subsidiaries in over 70 countries on the direction they should take technically. Following this consultancy volunteered to rebuild and redesign their current site, and based on a thorough research of their user's and the charities needs built a Drupal site with a cleaned-up, stripped-down design.

Maker's Academy
: *Teacher*
  __2013__
  Founding member of the faculty of a 12-week intensive web development course, both taught students in the class and assisted with the development of the curriculum. Students have since gone on to work at companies such as Sky and LastMinute.com

CouchSurfing.org
: *Software Engineer*
  __2011-2012__
  Worked on one of the largest and well-established travel websites (with over 6 million registered users), both on over-hauling the current site, creating a new events system, as well as being entrusted with architecting and building the API for their mobile apps.

Mukuru.com
: *Lead Developer*
  __2008-2010__
  Architected and built an entire mobile money-transfer system -  the same system is still being used four years on and and has transferred over $1 billion using an innovative SMS-based approach. Included in the system was a custom-built accounting application, anti-fraud protection, CRM and more.

Various Companies
: *Freelance Web Developer*
  __2004-2014__
  For the past 10 years I have worked freelance on-and-off for various companies, doing everything from building a co-working website in Ruby for a New-York based start-up to a bill-sharing application written in PHP.

------

### Education {#experience}

First Class Honours in *Intellectual and Cultural History*, __University of Sussex__

------

### Footer {#footer}

[leo.f.allen@gmail.com](leo.f.allen@gmail.com) -- +44 (0) 7841 528 905 -- [http://github.com/pitchinvasion](http://github.com/pitchinvasion)
